# hack-a-thing-1-watch-this

## What I tried to build

I wanted to learn how to build augmented reality tools/applications! I was talking to a recruiter the other day about a project their company was working on where they used AR in order to visualize furniture within a room in your house and see how it looked. I wanted to try to see if I could do something similar. I did a few walkthrough tutorials that comes preloaded with Unity. I ended up finding a great tutorial (found at: https://www.lynda.com/Unity-3D-tutorials/Unity-Vuforia-Trying-Watches-Augmented-Reality/2810403-2.html) that taught me how to build an app using Unity and Vuforia where users can try on watches in AR.

## What I learned and What didn't work

This was a rewarding but quite painful experience. Part of it is my own fault: I wasn't able to work on it much for most of the first part of the week so had to jam all of my hours into the last two days. I think that sapped my energy and excitement about the project. The installations of the required software took a very long time. I had been using an unstable version of XCode and I needed to update the OS on my computer to be able to download a new version. I had to restart installation of Unity once in order to include the required modules. All told, it probably took about 1-2 hours just getting everything to finish downloading and set up. Additionally, one of the tricky things about Unity, especially in the beginning, is that it involves very little written code. I think that I would have eventually gotten to a step where I would be writing code had I delved deeper into the application but I wrote essentially no code on a project I spend 10 hours on. It all involved a ton of configurations and imported settings, which I found very difficult to debug, even when following the tutorial. The spot I got stuck on the most was getting the downloaded Vuforia database with the Image target to be found within Unity. The solution ended up being to not download the database directly into the assets folder but rather save it into the downloads folder and drag it into the project. I really don't think I will want to work in Unity for my final project. It is super powerful and can produce some really cool products. However, I think the practice of using it is too divorced from the elements of coding that I enjoy the most.

That said, I do feel like I learned a lot and got a good introduction to the Unity and Vuforia environment. I now know the basics of Scene View vs Game View, materials vs game objects vs prefabs, the basic interaction of Unity and Vuforia, and how to use the basic tools. I learned how to export apps into iOS and Android environments. I feel confident that I could create something similar to this without the help of a tutorial. And that's a valuable skill.
